>> Kadi Kraman: All right, so the next
thing is this little segment which renders
this number and the seconds underneath and
actually created this component for us.
So we could just copy it because it's
things that we've built already, so
there's no point.
I'm not going to type it live.
But in your components if you
create a file called time segment.
I called it time segment here,
but it should be time segment.
So let's go to the components and
time segment.tx.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
I will just copy this file,
>> Kadi Kraman: So we've kind of a similar
style as, so
we've used all of these things before,
I think, so we have properties.
This is the react thing where you can do
structure properties, it takes the number,
the unit, so day, month, whatever.
And I've also optionally
passed in a text style.
>> Kadi Kraman: I passed in the text
style, so it would be flexible, so
we could make the text white or
black depending on the UI that we need.
So this is actually a handy thing that you
can use if you are using touch script,
and I hope you can use
this text style prop,
which is exported for type,
which is exported from React Native.
So this guarantees that you
are not going to pass nonsense
in there that isn't actually a style.
So we need to distinguish between our
overdue state and our not overdue state.
So let's start by creating a type,
for what we want to store.
So we want to store a countdown status,
and
we want to know whether it's overdue.
So whether we're entering a big old red
screen or not, this will be a boolean.
>> Kadi Kraman: We also want to
have a distance, and we're going
to use a utility function from
date functions to calculate this.
This is going to be the return
type of interval to duration.
This is probably the most complicated
TypeScript thing we're going to show, but
you can use ReturnType and
typeof, interval to duration,
which is imported from date function.
And this is handy because I don't need so
interval to duration, so it has a return
type here it says a ReturnType of duration
so if we go in here so this is what it
looks like so it will have years, so
it will be an object that will have years,
months, weeks, days, hours, minutes,
seconds as optional numbers.
To derive the numbers or zero, so
I could actually do duration here and
import it from date function.
Maybe that would be nicer.
Well, now you know.
So if you need, so this will give you
the return type of this function that
I've called, but actually now that
I've gone all the way through it,
I think it looks a little bit clearer
if I actually just do duration here.
>> Kadi Kraman: All right, and
then let's do a useState to store
our current countdown status.
So let's do a const, so
this will be status, and set status.
I'll do a useState and
if you wanna tell the useState, so
this is a touch script thing.
If you wanna tell the useState
what type it's going to be,
use these angle brackets and
you can put the type in here.
Saying that everything posted
has to be of that type and
we're going to give it a value
which should be not overdue.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
let's do a distance of an empty object, so
everything will be null.
So let's also do a timestamp.
So this is going to be dynamic eventually.
But let's start with a timestamp,
so const, timestamp,
timestamp, which is date dot now,
plus ten times 1000, okay, so
this is basically our due date timestamp.
So this will be for our testing purposes,
so I made it quite small so
I made it ten seconds,
this is ten seconds from now,
and I've hard coded it so it will be
ten seconds from when I load the app.
And we're gonna use this as our
deadline date for testing purposes.
So in our useEffect,
when we set our interval we want to
set the initial value of this
countdown status, so this thing here.
So for this we want to check whether
the thing that we are checking for
is overdue or not.
So whether this timestamp is
in the future or in the past.
So const is overdue.
And this is where the date
functions comes in.
So we can use a utility function from
here called isBefore, and basically
this tells us whether the first date
we passed in is before the second one.
So timestamp and date dot now.
>> Kadi Kraman: I've forgot to actually
call the function, there we go.
So this will return a Boolean, and
now we can also, we can use another
utility function from data functions,
which is interval to duration.
So this is what we're using
this duration from, so
that was why I was using
the return type of the function.
But if we do interva lto duration,
so const distance [COUGH].
Interval to duration and
the duration that we're calculating it
actually depends on whether
the thing was overdue or not.
So let's do if it is overdue,
>> Kadi Kraman: Then
we need to pass in a start and the end.
So start from the timestamp and end,
so the distance needs to be linear.
So if current time is after the timestamp,
then we start from this timestamp and
we end at date.now.
And otherwise we do the converse,
so we start at date.now and
we end at the timestamp.
>> Kadi Kraman: And we'll call setStatus.
So is overdue, and the distance.
Lovely, now we can get rid of our
seconds elapsed code as well,
cuz we're not going to
be using that anymore.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, so
if I just console log the status,
just to make sure that
everything is working.
Console log programming is where it's at,
there we go.
So it's ticking away and there we go.
So I got to one second and
it's saying that it is overdue and
now it overdue switch to true and
now it is ticking away, so
our UI will update every second as well.
We have the data for it.
We need to build the actual UI to update.